README.md, before:

# Typesense-dotnet

.net client for [Typesense.](https://github.com/typesense/typesense)

You can get the NuGet package [here.](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Typesense/)

## Setup
Setup in service collection so it can be dependency injected. The `AddTypesenseClient` can be found in the `Typesense.Setup` namespace. Remember to change the settings to match your Typesense service.

``` c#
var provider = new ServiceCollection()
    .AddTypesenseClient(config =>
    {
        config.ApiKey = "mysecretapikey";
        config.Nodes = new List<Node>
        {
            new Node
            {
                Host = "localhost",
                Port = "8108",
                Protocol = "http"
            }
        };
    }).BuildServiceProvider();
```

After that you can get it from the `provider` intance or dependency inject it.
``` c#
var typesenseClient = provider.GetService<ITypesenseClient>();
```

## Create collection
``` c#
var schema = new Schema
{
    Name = "Addresses",
    Fields = new List<Field>
    {
        new Field("id", "int32", false),
        new Field("houseNumber", "int32", false),
        new Field("accessAddress", "string", false),
    },
    DefaultSortingField = "id"
};

var createCollectionResult = await typesenseClient.CreateCollection(schema);
```

## Index document
``` c#
var address = new Address
{
    Id = 1,
    HouseNumber = 2,
    AccessAddress = "Smedgade 25B"
};

var createDocumentResult = await typesenseClient.CreateDocument<Address>("Addresses", address);
```

## Upsert document
``` c#
var address = new Address
{
    Id = 1,
    HouseNumber = 2,
    AccessAddress = "Smedgade 25B"
};

var upsertResult = await typesenseClient.UpsertDocument<Address>("Addresses", address);
```

## Search document in collection
``` c#
var query = new SearchParameters
{
    Text = "Smed",
    QueryBy = "accessAddress"
};

var searchResult = await typesenseClient.Search<Address>("Addresses", query);
```

## Retrieve a document on id
``` c#
var retrievedDocument = await typesenseClient.RetrieveDocument<Address>("Addresses", "1");
```

## Update document on id
``` c#
var address = new Address
{
    Id = 1,
    HouseNumber = 2,
    AccessAddress = "Smedgade 25B"
};

var updateDocumentResult = await typesenseClient.UpdateDocument<Address>("Addresses", "1", address);
```

## Delete document on id
``` c#
var deleteResult = await typesenseClient.DeleteDocument<Address>("Addresses", "1");
```

## Delete documents using filter
``` c#
var deleteResult = await typesenseClient.DeleteDocuments("Addresses", "houseNumber:>=3", 100);
```

## Drop a collection on name
``` c#
var deleteCollectionResult = await typesenseClient.DeleteCollection("Addresses");
```

## Import documents
The default batch size is `40`.
The default ImportType is `Create`.
You can pick between three different import types `Create`, `Upsert`, `Update`.
The returned values are a list of `ImportResponse` that contains a `success code`, `error` and the failed `document` as a string representation.

``` c#
var importDocumentResults = await typesenseClient.ImportDocuments<Address>("Addresses", addresses, 40, ImportType.Create);
```

## Export documents
``` c#
var addresses = await typesenseClient.ExportDocuments<Address>("Addresses");
```

Commit message:

fixes spelling issues and adds section to create collection

README.md, after:

# Typesense-dotnet

.net client for [Typesense.](https://github.com/typesense/typesense)

You can get the NuGet package [here.](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Typesense/)

## Setup

Setup in service collection so it can be dependency injected. The `AddTypesenseClient` can be found in the `Typesense.Setup` namespace. Remember to change the settings to match your Typesense service.

``` c#
var provider = new ServiceCollection()
    .AddTypesenseClient(config =>
    {
        config.ApiKey = "mysecretapikey";
        config.Nodes = new List<Node>
        {
            new Node
            {
                Host = "localhost",
                Port = "8108",
                Protocol = "http"
            }
        };
    }).BuildServiceProvider();
```

After that you can get it from the `provider` instance or dependency inject it.
``` c#
var typesenseClient = provider.GetService<ITypesenseClient>();
```

## Create collection

When you create the collection, you can specify each field with `name`, `type` and if it should be a `facet` or be an `optional` field.

``` c#
var schema = new Schema
{
    Name = "Addresses",
    Fields = new List<Field>
    {
        new Field("id", "int32", false),
        new Field("houseNumber", "int32", false),
        new Field("accessAddress", "string", false, true),
    },
    DefaultSortingField = "id"
};

var createCollectionResult = await typesenseClient.CreateCollection(schema);
```

## Index document

``` c#
var address = new Address
{
    Id = 1,
    HouseNumber = 2,
    AccessAddress = "Smedgade 25B"
};

var createDocumentResult = await typesenseClient.CreateDocument<Address>("Addresses", address);
```

## Upsert document

``` c#
var address = new Address
{
    Id = 1,
    HouseNumber = 2,
    AccessAddress = "Smedgade 25B"
};

var upsertResult = await typesenseClient.UpsertDocument<Address>("Addresses", address);
```

## Search document in collection

``` c#
var query = new SearchParameters
{
    Text = "Smed",
    QueryBy = "accessAddress"
};

var searchResult = await typesenseClient.Search<Address>("Addresses", query);
```

## Retrieve a document on id

``` c#
var retrievedDocument = await typesenseClient.RetrieveDocument<Address>("Addresses", "1");
```

## Update document on id

``` c#
var address = new Address
{
    Id = 1,
    HouseNumber = 2,
    AccessAddress = "Smedgade 25B"
};

var updateDocumentResult = await typesenseClient.UpdateDocument<Address>("Addresses", "1", address);
```

## Delete document on id

``` c#
var deleteResult = await typesenseClient.DeleteDocument<Address>("Addresses", "1");
```

## Delete documents using filter

``` c#
var deleteResult = await typesenseClient.DeleteDocuments("Addresses", "houseNumber:>=3", 100);
```

## Drop a collection on name

``` c#
var deleteCollectionResult = await typesenseClient.DeleteCollection("Addresses");
```

## Import documents

The default batch size is `40`.
The default ImportType is `Create`.
You can pick between three different import types `Create`, `Upsert`, `Update`.
The returned values are a list of `ImportResponse` that contains a `success code`, `error` and the failed `document` as a string representation.

``` c#

var importDocumentResults = await typesenseClient.ImportDocuments<Address>("Addresses", addresses, 40, ImportType.Create);
```

## Export documents

``` c#
var addresses = await typesenseClient.ExportDocuments<Address>("Addresses");
```
